the first hidden spell interaction is
with web web covers an area in thick
flammable webbing that slows creatures
within and possibly in webs them but by
creating a web it can actually act as a
soft surface to jump from a high place
from negating all falling damage use it
on a patch of ground then jumping onto
that patch will cause no falling damage
and it won't knock you prone this is a
great way to jump from high places when
you don't have feather fall available
these spells can be used by the ranger
spider companion or as a shape-shifted
druid as a spider and both Sorcerers and
wizards have access to Webb the ranger
Sorcerer And wizard have the best
ability to pull this off either as a
ranger being able to summon their spider
at the bottom of a high cliff then
casting the web successfully or a wizard
or Source work casting web from above
however the Druid would have to
shapeshift and then they actually won't
always be able to jump down as a spider
or cast it from above because as a
spider they're going to be lower to the
ground and might not actually have
vision of where they need to do this so
next time you don't have feather fall
try using web instead and if you like
that tip don't forget to click like And
subscribe for more Baldur's Gate 3
videos coming in at number two we have
darkness and fog Cloud now both fog
cloud and darkness blind and heavily
obscure creatures within it the obvious
use is to prevent ranged attacks from
entering an area but you can also use
darkness and fog to obscure an area you
want to steal from and do other crimes
within without consequence this is
really handy when you just really want
that item that you want to steal right
there just sitting on that table just
begging to be stolen maybe you can't
afford something and you need some quick
gold but you still want to be friendly
with the town and you still won't be
able to trade and do quests later
without causing a run-in with the guards
or a big fight darkness and fog Cloud
will be your cover to do your crimes and
then you're done doing your crime you
can just leave without consequence all
right number three we have Rangers
companion this allows you to gain a
beast companion that will help you on
your quest and fight alongside you now
I've noticed that this Beast can cause
different interaction specifically with
goblins depending on the animal the boar
seems to slightly attract goblins and
they may attack it too wolf is similar
in that it might get attacked but
actually doesn't attract goblins won't
go chasing after it the big spider
surprisingly doesn't cause as much fear
as the familiar small spider but it
doesn't seem to provoke attacks like the
other animals then the bear seems on the
same level as the small spider in that
they cause the Goblins to actually run
away in fear but also it will be
attacked if it wanders too close I
thought it was just really interesting
how each animal causes a different
response and so you could actually use
this when you're trying to either avoid
combat or set up an ambush by scaring
some goblins really far away from the
others to get really good positioning
depending on your goals use a different
animal and get the desired result you're
going after all right number four we
have conjure minor Elemental now this
spell conjures a minor Elemental of
course to fight alongside you other
summoning spells like find familiar
anime dead and so on can all be used and
then swapped out for a different spell
as long as you're outside of combat so
basically do this and the summons will
persist and you have a freed up spell
slot for something else I think this is
just kind of a neat little trick
allowing you to get more spells usable
than you might have thought at first
glance if you just choose to use a
summoning spell first and then switch to
a different spell kind of cool adds some
extra value to these summoning spells
alright number five we have create or
destroy water it's on another list so
this calls forth rain extinguishing
exposed flames and forms a water surface
now while this water surface has a ton
of uses we talked about in our previous
videos the actual spellcast has an
additional use it can be used to reveal
characters that are invisible of course
you still need to know in the general
area that they are to be able to
successfully cast on top of them but if
you do use create water on them and
their invisibility will actually be
removed so really really cool another
use case for it the number six we have
Sanctuary right now we talked about this
one again and different list but this
makes you or an ally unable to be
targeted until you attack or harm a
creature so you're basically
invulnerable you can't be attacked this
spell can actually be incredibly
powerful in a number of different
situations you can use it on your healer
because it doesn't break Sanctuary when
healing even more importantly you can
use it after Reviving or healing a
downed teammate in battle since it's a
bonus action so the Synergy is that a
character comes back after being downed
they're probably gonna be at like one
health or just a handful of hit points
and they're probably gonna spend their
turn drinking a potion in the ending
turn so just having that protection so
that right when they get back they don't
get downed immediately is just perfect
and then they're probably not going to
be attacking on their turn anyways and
so I just think it's a perfect use case
use healing word then Sanctuary or
something along those lines in order to
get a character back from being downed
and then protected awesome awesome combo
also if you have a character that uses a
concentration spell purely for support
whether that's less or hold person using
Sanctuary on that person will
essentially make them almost impossible
to have their concentration broken which
can be super useful in the right
scenarios and you could even use
sanctuary and then place a glyph of
warding to inflict AOE damage and that's
actually not going to cause you to lose
Sanctuary because it wasn't you it was
the glyph so this works great if you're
going also to be a Summoner who you
create a mage hand and that's not going
to break Sanctuary then the Mage hand
can then actually like attack and push
it can throw objects that can harm your
enemy well you continue to either
animate dead or conjure some other
minion so sanctuary in my opinion is a
great spell to have almost all the time
for both healers and casters who
primarily summon what a powerful spell
also while Sanctuary might make you
untargetable it actually does not
protect you from falling damage in any
way tested that out but you will keep
the buff after the fall after you take
that damage all right number seven we
have enlarge slash reduce now this
benefits you in combat by making your
target larger to increase their weapon
damage by 1d4 and gain advantage on
strength checks and saving throws or do
the opposite to an enemy now outside of
combat reducing your size when combined
with disguised self as a gnome halfling
or dwarf you can actually make your
character small enough to be able to
enter small burrow holes now you've
likely come across small burrow holes
you might not have known what to do with
them while this is one way to see what's
on the other side not only that but
reducing your teammate size can also
make them small enough to be thrown by a
teammate to either get in or out of a
dangerous situation or even to deal some
damage to an enemy maybe you want to
throw your character into combat maybe
they're a dwarf Barbarian or something
or halfling Barbarian and you just throw
them it'll do some damage and they're
going to be in melee range so this spell
is very flexible with more uses than you
might think number eight is Greece now
when I first saw this spell I actually
wasn't even that big of a fan of it what
it does is that it covers the ground in
flammable grease becomes difficult to
rain and can make creatures within it
fall prone this spell is actually pretty
underrated it can serve multiple
purposes knocking enemies prone but more
likely forcing enemies to avoid where
you created the grease allowing you to
funnel them a certain way if you wanted
so the AI typically tries to avoid
walking over the grease which makes a
lot of sense and what I think is the
best part about crease of course is that
it's flammable and the fire bolt can
trip is extremely common in Baldur's
Gate 3 a Starion gets it Gail gets it
Shadow heart has it so there's a ton of
sources for Firebolt and so you're very
likely to already have fire ready to
light the grease on fire and burn
everyone in it and what's really cool
about Greece is that if there's already
a small amount of fire burning you can
actually really increase the distance of
that fire by casting grease on top of it
just have a little bit of the Grease
cast overlap so that the fire is going
to spread to the full radius of the
grease and so that can actually really
make the fire much bigger as well if
there's already some fire so Greece has
a lot of different uses that I think is
actually really really cool and and a
lot of the time the enemies just barely
avoiding you know the fire and so if you
cast Greece it's gonna basically bring
the fire to them so it can be a very
surprised attack on them casting grease
right on top of them with a little bit
overlap on the fire so Greece I think is
a lot better than you might think then
finally at number eight we have Raya
Frost and arrow of ice these cause ice
damage and either slows movement speed
by three meters and or creates an ice
surface so of course it can put out fire
which can be very helpful but as a side
effect it isn't just going to leave
behind Ash after the fire's been put out
it's actually going to create a water
surface of course it's very helpful for
avoiding fire damage from that fire
surface but this is also great because
water can be used with lightning to
cause extra damage to enemies and it can
create a very hazardous patch of ground
the water of course can either later be
frozen or used in a multitude of
different ways to combo your enemy so
that's my list of nine spells that have
couple hidden extra interactions than
you might think of at first glance let
me know if I missed anything or there's
any that you know about in the comments
below thanks for watching and I'll see
you in the next video take care